{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red51\green51\blue51;\red165\green165\blue165;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs52\lang9 How to upload files to s3 from laravel in 2023 (written on 04/11/23)\par
\par
\cf1\b0\fs36 The most difficult part is not even the laravel, its the setting up of the aws in order to connect with laravel after that your code will be easy.\par
video reffrence:\ul https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tFMj_0IAxU&t=17s\par
\cf2\par
STEP1:Creating an IAM user group and users\par
\cf1\ulnone\fs28 > go to your aws account and login,then search for Iam from the services and click on it.\par
>\ul Next is to create a user group\ulnone :when you are in your IAM dashboard,on the left dashboard panel, under "Access management" click "User groups"\par
You will be taken to a table displaying all your groups you have created.Click on the button written "create group" which might be orange in color.\par
\par
These are the things you need to do while creating your group\par
\ul 1.user group name \ulnone => enter the name of your group can be anything you want but make sure there is no space between the characters.\par
2.\ul Attach permissions policies \ulnone => under here search for "s3Fullaccess" and check the "AmazonS3FullAccess" checkbox.This  allow the group to make changes  to the s3 bucket.\par
\par
\b Then click on "create group button" and your group will be created with all your permissions.\par
\b0\par
after creating your group,you need to ad users to your group so that is the next step.\par
>Now go back to users and click create users and fill in the following input fields\par
\i 1.user name =>enter the name of your user.\par
\b\i0 note:Dont check the "provide user access to the aws management console-optional" checkbox.\par
\b0 then click next button.\par
\i 2.next is to add the user to the group we had created earlier.Look for the group we had created and check on it to add the user to the group\par
\par
\i0 then click next and \b dont add any tags \b0 just click next and click \b  create user \b0  button.\par
Now your user is all set up next step is to create access key for the user.\par
\i >click on the user you just create and navigate to \b security credentials \b0\par
>scroll down to access keys and click \b  create access key\par
\b0 >on the 6 use cases (command interface,local code,application running on an aws compute service,third party service,third-party service,application running outside aws,other) select on the \b  third-party service \b0  option and click \b next.\b0\par
>Leave the tags blank dont add any tags. and click \b create access key.\par
\b0\i0\par
Now your access key has been created and you have been given  two things \b access key \b0 and \b secret access key\b0 . Download them  and navigate to your .env file in your laravel application and set these two fields as follows\par
\par
\b AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID= access key given to you by aws\par
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=secret access key given to you by aws.\par
\b0 now you are set with the user and this step is complete we go to step two\par
=============================================================\par
==============================================================\par
\cf2\ul\fs36 STEP 2:Create and configure s3 bucket\par
\cf1\ulnone\fs28 search for s3 under your services and click on it then follow the following steps\par
\i >click on create a bucket and fill in the information as given below\par
\ul bucket name \ulnone =>name of your bucket (make it unique)\par
\ul AWS region \ulnone => I always leave it to us-east-1 because it is the default for laravel configuration.\par
\i0 next is \b object ownership \b0  settings \par
\i here there are two choices \b acl disabled(recommended) \b0  and \b ACL enabled\par
\b0 click on the second chice ACL enabled.\par
\i0 when you click on the checkbox you will get two choices for \b object ownership\par
1.bucket owner preffered\par
2.object writer\par
\b0 click on \b object writer\par
\par
\b0 under the Block public access settings \b  uncheck the "block all public access" for the bucket\b0\par
aknowledge  what you just did  and click on \b create bucket button\par
\par
\b0 now go to your .env files and update the aws information with your new information\par
\b AWS_DEFAULT_REGION= us-east-1 \{the region where you choose\}\par
AWS_BUCKET=machizi \{your bucket name you just created\}\par
AWS_URL="https://machizi.s3.amazonaws.com/" \{add this line for good url generation\}\par
AWS_USE_PATH_STYLE_ENDPOINT=true \{change this from false to true\}\par
\par
\b0 After that you are ready for the next step where you configure the bucket more deeply are you ready?\par
\par
\cf2\ul\fs36 STEP 3:Configure the ACL on the bucket\par
\cf1\ulnone\fs28 click on the bucket you just created and navigate to the \b permissions\b0  tabs\par
here you will find  Bucket policy section click on \b edit \b0 button. for us we will use policy generator button on the \b top-right of our screen\b0  \par
when you click on the policy generator.Enter the information as follows\par
\i select type of policy => s3 bucket policy\par
principal => * (meaning allow everything)\par
aws service => leave it the way you found it\par
actions => select \b all actions \b0 checkbox ("*")\par
Amazon Resource Name (ARN)  => here go back and copy your aws arn number  under edit bucket policy page.\par
\par
\i0 after that click on add statement and then scroll to the bottom and  click \b  generate policy button\par
\b0 You will be given  a nice json, copy it  and paste in the bucket policy and click on  \b save changes\b0\par
\par
next is to navigate to  \b edit access control list (ACL) \b0  and check on the box where it is written  "Everyone [public access]" check on the \b  list \b0  and \b read \b0  checkbox this allows the bucket to be public. and click on \b  save changes \b0\par
\par
Next is  to scroll to the bottom and you will find  Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) click edit and paste the following code  then click on the save changes.\par
\b\i\par
[\par
    \{\par
        "AllowedHeaders": [],\par
        "AllowedMethods": [\par
            "GET",\par
            "PUT",\par
            "POST",\par
            "DELETE"\par
        ],\par
        "AllowedOrigins": [\par
            "*"\par
        ],\par
        "ExposeHeaders": []\par
    \}\par
]\par
\b0\i0\par
Remember you can edit \b the  allowedOrigin  \b0 after you have deployed your app to allow only the allewed websites to make changes,click on save changes. \par
\par
And now you are done all you are remaining with is to add object to your bucket\par
\par
        $request->validate([\par
            'file' => 'required',\par
        ]);\par
        $file_extention = $request->file->getClientOriginalExtension();\par
        $newFilename = time() .'memeitfilesassets_images'.'.'.$file_extention;\par
        $filePath ="photos/".$newFilename;\par
        try\{\par
\par
\b add file to s3 using the below command.\b0\par
         $path = Storage::disk('s3')->put($filePath,file_get_contents($request->file));   \par
        \} catch(Throwable $err)\{\par
            return response() -> json([\par
                "message" =>"image not uploaded to s3",\par
                "succes" =>false,\par
                "error" =>$err->getMessage()\par
                // "filename" =>$fileName\par
            ]);  \par
        \}\par
       \b get the path of the image or video or txt  after uploading\b0\par
        $path = Storage::disk('s3')->url($filePath);\par
\par
\par
remember if you are always stuck you can reffrence to this original video that helped me solve this problem\par
link:\ul https://youtu.be/5tFMj_0IAxU \ulnone  or this {\ul\fs36{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tFMj_0IAxU&t=17s }}{\fldrslt{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tFMj_0IAxU&t=17s}}}}\ul\f0\fs36\par
\par
\ulnone\b !REMEMBER TO ALWAYS DOCUMENT YOUR PROBLEMS!\b0\fs28\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\fs36\par
\cf1\ulnone\fs28\par
\b\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\par
\b0\par
\par
\cf2\par
\cf0\b\par
\par
\b0\fs36\par
\cf2\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf0\fs22\par
}
 